# Estimation of the spatial and temporal co-registration errors between real and virtual environments

Virtual reality (VR) systems with multisensory (auditory, visual, and haptic) feedback have proven to be a viable replacement for live training scenarios in training and functional motor learning, such as in simulating military training scenarios and novel scenarios that cannot be replicated in the real world (e.g., accidents) for industrial safety training. Moreover, VR training has been shown to be equally (if not more) effective as conventional physical therapy for functional motor rehabilitation. Although visual and auditory feedback in VR systems is common for training and motor rehabilitation, simulating haptic interactions within virtual environments is challenging. Many devices developed for providing haptic feedback inside virtual environments are limited by several factors, such as size and weight limitations, high cost-benefit ratio and complexity, lack of diverse applicability, and low fidelity (or realism). Recent studies have utilized physical props to simulate haptic feedback in physically interactive VR systems to mitigate the limitations of haptic devices. It is important to note that, in order to develop a high-fidelity VR system using physical props for motor recovery and motor learning, the position and orientation tracking (i.e., surface registration) of the physical props should be of sufficient accuracy (low offsets between real and virtual objects’ position and orientation in the tracking space) and the latency between the physical movement of the props and the corresponding update in the VE display (i.e., temporal registration) should be low. However, no previous study has reported any empirical evidence of surface and temporal registration accuracy of a physically interactive VR system. As such, the purpose of this study is to develop a physically interactive VR system using physical props and to evaluate the effectiveness of the developed system in terms of the surface and temporal registration of real and virtual objects.
